# LitterTrak

Imari Marshall, Drew Baker, Jarven Lei, Leon Miro, Ryan

https://github.com/IMarshall98/final_proj 

The information problem we were trying to solve with this app, was that of real time garbage tracking in the county. 
This could be used to assess the local efforts of cleanup, and help distribute efforts of community service to areas 
most in need of cleanup.

Stakeholders include companies or organizations that have subscribed to the adopt a road program, or similar community
service programs. This way these organizations will be able to assess their progress and monitor the garbage level at 
their respective locations within the community. In addition to individual volunteer organizations with dedicated cleanup 
areas, high schools and universities will also benefit from this application as each of their students have some degree 
of required community service hours. This will allow community service departments at the schools to allocate students 
and hours towards required community service. 

The data used in this application was taken through the LitterTRAK API via the Prince George’s County open data database.
The dataset tracks the “collection of trash and debris by County residents, community organizations and businesses during 
individual and group clean-up events”. We found this data to be sufficient and accurate enough to use in our project.  

In regards to the strategy for our solution, we decided that we would try and visualize the area on an interactive map.  
We aimed to do this by visually representing the amount of litter in parts of the community with markers or color patterns
on a live map.

Our final system addresses the problem by using leaflet maps, we originally wanted to have several ways to illustrate the 
data and volumes of trash per area in the county but in the end we resorted to placing map markers for high target areas. 

As far as challenges go, our team did not have a lot of programming and/or web design experience before this class so 
things moved at a pretty slow pace for us in the beginning. We had to work together to figure out many of our problems,
and we still did not achieve what result we were hoping for in the early stages of development. Moreover, the fact that
we were each confined to our separate houses later on in the semester added to the difficulty for collaboration. I think 
we would have had a better final product in general if we were able to collaborate and work in the same physical space at
the same time. This however was good practice for us, as development teams rarely meet and work in real time in the
professional work environment.  


Future work on this project would likely include adding to the interactive map functionality by increasing the maximum 
amount of markers and display features on the map at any given time. We would also include an advanced filter page and
search function. We would like to stick with our original vision for the project and implement various degrees of data 
visualization as well giving ordinary users a more in depth view of the local county status at a quick glance. 
